I'm gonna give it you short talk about
kind of what we see is kind of the next
wave of what theory especially you know
kind of thinking about like we're
looking a little bit on the day and then
thinking about kinda what's coming ahead
and I want to give you a preview of
tomorrow so we the way that we
structured this the summit was that we
decided to have kind of a lot of the
presentations of of kind of the status
quo today and what's kind of coming
ahead now in the first day and we wanted
to kind of reserve time tomorrow with
with all the folks involved in the
infrastructure because it's important
for ipfs to to really think about the
future and think about things are coming
ahead so we've heard a lot of things
from from many folks now of what people
are working on and what's coming
tomorrow is we want to orient towards
towards a few more discussions like that
a few more developer tools that we want
to discuss around there also talked
about Falcone and and and how it can it
can be useful to you and and what the
opportunities for integration and
business kind of up here up here in that
horizon and then also create some space
for for kind of standardization and
formalizing of some of some api's and
plenty of room for discussion so we we
kind of had the lightning talks and and
some kind of unstructured session time
for any kind discussions with you might
want to have so we really wouldn't like
the the goal was to kind of kind of do a
roundup of kind of where we were at
today in day one and then in day to kind
of look towards the future and and think
about possibilities so you know with the
web three spaces is growing a lot every
year it gets a gets much better this
whole space has grown you know slower
than the the the social network space
crew if you count kind of the the social
network space is like you know 2003 2006
or something like that but if you if you
think of like the early days when snow
works in like 95 96 it's actually kind
of kind of similar so it really depends
on when you start counting we're
definitely seeing a ton of acceleration
in the latest you know year or two as as
the finally we're solving a bunch of
difficult infrastructure challenges that
are enabling a lot of applications to to
to reach consumers and especially things
that require really good UX right so a
lot of the tooling for for-4 wallets and
how you would use contracts and all I
can stuff that is getting getting all
smoothed out what we're also getting
into a point where where we're figuring
out how deploying the apps and and just
feel can feel a lot more like mainstream
applications right so some of the work
recently with with the domain names and
and with parties like like textile and
sleek and others have made it made the
experience of deploying something into
what three very very similar to that
point something love to and in some
cases I think actually better and like
that that is a really really hard bar to
hardboard ahead and what once we're
there then we should see a lot more a
lot more developers start moving over so
you know the you can system growth low
timeline this is a snapshot of things
going on there's a lot of applications
that I hear about that and and up not
not here because kind of coming come and
go and so on definitely if you know of
things that are in the infancy system
under non this diagram please PR then
this diagram is flexible for that for
that reason but look there's a ton of
amazing applications and a lot of
systems that build an IP FS and are
really having great success doing so and
a lot of it is really thanks to thanks
to all of the people that that um that
work on the infrastructure and the
developer tooling that enables these
applications so a lot of folks that are
able to build products and build build
systems can do so because of the help of
people running the pending services
running gateways running all of the
infrastructure that powers these
applications so we've been reflecting on
how we can how we can help help the
builders to to kind of build out for for
the whole ecosystem you know we saw
things like you know browsing the web is
getting a lot easier through the latest
integrations in browsers like opera and
brave and and you know things i
companion and not a mosque that
definitely thinks are a lot smoother and
get a smoother every every every once or
so and in the kind of move to being able
to host websites and apps like this just
I think now in like the last couple of
months
hit a really nice sweet spot of being
able to to deploy a website very easily
in a normal web to flow and have the
whole stack the be totally wet three
oriented and this this is going to Nabal
a lot of different different
applications to to start moving over so
I think at this point the the tooling
works really well enough in the product
UX is good enough that um that we can
think of of larger more more mainstream
broader broader marketing efforts to to
to really get get get a lot of users I
think at this point is you know compared
to say a year ago or two years ago when
UX and progress wasn't really there it's
been a really transformative thing I
wanted to give a shout out to a few
groups who have really worked on on
compelling products one of this is its
audience here where where they've done a
ton of like hard work around the product
UX of delivering kind of an audio music
player that feels totally like I wept to
web to style of experience with a full
you know proper web 3 protocol the way
down in the sack this is a great great
application you should check out it's
pretty compelling how high quality the
experience has gotten and this of course
there are a small team so probably what
won't have nearly as many features as
things like Spotify in SoundCloud and so
on
but it but it's pretty passive word what
what they've achieved and the other and
missing my slide so the other one I was
gonna mention was a was Haven and open
Bazaar who's done an enormous amount of
work getting the all of the mobile
tooling to work really really nicely and
and that whole areas is a starting to
grow we can have you know proper ipfs
were three apps in in environment um so
and again all this is possible thanks to
thanks to the service providers and
infrastructure builders right so things
like the gateways that really make it
accessible for a lot of folks that whose
browsers don't yet run I think that's
directly or you know running game was
like we run one that one of the gateways
and so we see a lot of the difficulties
that they're running one of these kinds
of things takes oh yeah we are
like the awesome volume growth over time
in the network and so I think thanks for
kicking a big part of making that
possible and putting services so this is
one of the key things and they're more
here that I should get all the logos we
should probably have a website where we
can see all of the pinning services
listed and and really thank you for
making it possible to build a whole
bunch of applications and smoothing the
the interface and making it much easier
for people to to actually use IP
fastened and be able to rely on it for
four important important business cases
so I think yeah we should all feel
really proud of being able to support
and enable all of these these
applications and there are more every
every month there's a ton of new stuff
happening our goal with with setting up
this this summit and kind of starting to
kind of form this this community of
infrastructure builders is to ease to
help share a lot of the knowledge help
make connections where possible and and
help see how we can help you enable
others and and have like very successful
businesses that that that that can grow
and and so on and with that in mind I
want to preview some of the the stuff
for for for tomorrow so I think one of
the big questions that I've done a lot
in the last few months is like hey how
can a simple search or providers
participate in all the Falcone ecosystem
growth and how will pinning services
interact with popcorn right so pinning
services store data and and and and they
charge users for that there's a whole
bunch of developer tooling that that are
pinning services kind of orienting
around how will that interplay with
Hockman and what are the opportunities
for pinning service in Hockman so we'll
cover a fair amount of tomorrow we we
also want to cover some use case
specific opportunities there's a bunch
of stuff around you know thinking about
backing up developer assets being able
to think about you know package managers
registries VMs containers and so on all
of these developer tooling use cases are
are now starting to really shine on on
on ipfs with all of the work on
distributing containers is that an
editor and other folks have been been
working on and there can and so on and
improving bit swap the
release and and brilliant distribution
for for um for data so these developer
tooling use cases can finally be the
tackled and that those represent in
really enormous amounts of data and so
those sort of think are really good
opportunities for all kinds of
interpreter builders especially
especially printing services right so
imagine being able to store and
distribute all of docker hub which is a
huge amount of data faster and better
with ipfs and then having pinning
services be able to kind of help
replicate a lot of it and back it up and
so on so think this is like a really
strong opportunity for the community as
a whole and I think it'll take it'll
take kind of some amount of coordination
of thinking about the use cases the
tooling that are the tooling that is
missing and and how all the different
pieces can plug together I think we can
all think of the problem into end and
say ok great look you have a bunch of
containers here you want to get them
from from these these place you want to
pack all of them up you want to be able
to store them really quickly and then
there are developers in with you know
data centers and in local dev
environments that need access to these
containers I need to pull them really
quickly and so on and you can imagine
like the the connectivity flows in those
networks but but you know thinking of
the use case end to end and actually
manifesting it in a way that's better
product wise than the alternatives that
people has today but that's like a much
higher bar right so think a lot of the
tooling for replicas does a bunch of the
the raw heavy lifting underneath the
hood but but the the interfaces are
still really raw and hard and and it's
hard for for most developers to kind of
play around with it and use it so this
is I think a really great opportunity
and I think getting containers right
docker hub enables all the VMS and
package managers as well so this really
really awesome awesome possibility I
also want to bring up that BOTS are a
big part of a developer kind of life
cycles and in a lot of things are BOTS
that people don't think about BOTS like
you know as scripts in a cron job and
it's close enough to a bot but think of
being able to put in all kinds of
automation where all sorts of static
assets that are preview like previous of
websites or things that don't fit and
get like kind of like the large files
you don't want to push too there's good
repos and maybe yellow festive some work
for you use case all of that can be can
be a good integration flow for for ipfs
and those are large assets which again
are really good opportunity for for
pinning services where if you can
imagine kind of having a having a bottom
github that you can you can like add to
either add an integration or just summon
the bot with a with a message on github
and you know how to start following your
following your content and backing
things up things like via publishing we
expected are going to be a really big
big deal in in the coming coming months
and couple years this use case is I
think one of the biggest one for biggest
ones for all storage and this includes
both the video distribution platforms
like things like YouTube and v2 and so
on but also includes like the camera use
cases that we just saw where where
people are capturing the video and and
maybe sharing it amongst a smaller group
group setting and also streaming so a
really big one is it's just streaming to
lots of people you know things like
twitch and so on being able to do kind
of a a peer assisted kind of thing kind
of twitch experience that would be a
really phenomenal phenomenal place to be
and I really want to plug the work of
life here recently on getting the
getting you know someone in a cloud of
GPUs to actually be able to do the
transcoding in real time so this is a
pretty impressive achievement and that
community has basically done all the all
the work to to really get the video
transcoding down to where to what it
really needs to be for a decentralized
application to really be able to to
compete with these these groups so again
another huge opportunity for pinning
services to to you know kind of if
you're interested in video kind of
tackling that that use case and helping
figure out what are the one of the pain
points what are the use cases what I'm
what the businesses really need because
oftentimes the protocol is not it's not
gonna satisfy what the with a what the
business use case demands there's gonna
be products and tooling around that use
case that um that those groups are gonna
are going to need we also see see things
like social media that's finally being
the possible things like things like
Pinterest and and Twitter and Facebook
and so on we we now
the the primitives for for feeds for
Social Feeds things like threads we have
like encryption we have user oriented
data storage and so on all of these
components are now are not there now we
have to plug those components together
and actually build a decentralized
Twitter type thing that really works and
really scales like that's something that
I'm oftentimes in the West 3 decrypted
world we've flagged hey let's make
decentralized sweater as as a kind of
example app with without fully realizing
just how difficult to do something like
Twitter with privacy with moderation
with you know reactions like being able
to count likes on a tweet that goes
viral really quickly and it has you know
millions of thousands to millions of
likes doing that in a peer-to-peer way
is extremely hard and so you know when
people suggested Twitter as like a an
easy thing to do or like the the
magnitude of the difficulty here was not
it was not super clear but I think we're
finally getting there we finally have
the primitives to to build the first
versions of these of these systems to
work well and it'll take it'll take a
lot of work to scale them but but I
think we're we're we're getting there um
no just things that I'm personally
really excited about and I think a lot
of people in the community are excited
about of these games so you can think of
game distribution platforms and games
themselves as being able to be stored in
backed up and moved around with with
with these tools so think of the game
distribution platform something like the
steam store being able to be built over
IP us and pinning services and and
falcone and so on where you can you know
do host all of the static assets that
are really big like you know large
amount of data storage for a game plus
do the whole you know store experience
we now have marketplaces and I profess
things like origin and open those are in
Haven and so on so we know how to we
know how to do that now so we can put
these two things together and do
something that very few organizations
have ever been able to do because of the
bandwidth bandwidth constraints right so
the video distribution so the game
distribution piece here is so big that a
lot of players have a lot of groups have
never been able to kind of compete with
these settings and we kind of have a
pretty amazing on for our advantage
which is
decentralisation this is you it's an
open open environment where nobody's
gonna deny your game because because
they don't like it or something or you
know the store doesn't it's not gonna
censor your your thing and it has you
know the peer-to-peer bandwidth
distribution model which is a pretty
pretty powerful primitive so think those
two things can can really enable and
that's the game institution platforms
and ideally eventually you know cause a
switch to the existing ones right so I
think like all great technologies like
you kind of like end game study this one
when the killer apps have now either
outpaced or cause the the original
applications to kind of switch
technologies and then beyond the
distribution platform actually making
the games themselves and and think of
how to not just distributing the the
binaries and the asses and so on but but
actually thinking of network games that
are peer-to-peer that would be be really
really fantastic and this kind of we're
starting to see the beginning of this
with things like decentraland
and crypto voxels which are really cool
kind of beginnings of virtual worlds on
in web 3 and primarily those these right
now are kind of very focus on the on the
interactions and the tokens and the and
the kind of calling of programs in these
environments but right now I think a lot
of the data is I think the centralized
data is structured as I believe I think
it's compatible I forget exactly but I
think is very close
I think crypto boxes is not yet in that
environment but I think it would be
amazing to be able to look at these two
these two systems and be like they're
fully decentralized you know later this
year or next year and all of this data
is moved around and distributed with
with that BFS I think this would be a
fantastic than a community oriented
thing where they would love to be able
to have like meetups in in these
environments and that features something
have it have any one of these places and
I think this is a place where a lot of
infrastructure providers can can help
land this by understanding these users
understanding their use cases what they
what product areas they really need help
with and kind of tuning products for
them and so we I sort of expect that the
certain pending services will find a
really nice sweet spot with some
specific sets of users
and tune the product for those users and
I think of that that might be like a
really kind of successful environment
for for the whole community um I also
want to plug things like large
scientific data there's a ton of open
access public data that we can that we
can use and that we can we can start
distributing with with without BFS
there's already a number of archives on
on I confess but there's a lot more out
there earlier today the Falcon team
announced Falcon discover which we'll
hear more about tomorrow and and there
are projects like academic torrents and
others where there are these like huge
data sets that are that are stored and
distributed and are public access it'd
be amazing to be able to kind of get all
of these into into a profess and moving
around with with uh with services so if
you you know are interested in pursuing
these things let's talk about it
tomorrow because I'd love to kind of
help facilitate some of some of these
things like for example academic
torrents I think it's you know sixty
terabytes siquiera bytes we could
totally store that and distributed
through pending services you know this
in a few months and and PL would love to
help support those kinds of those kinds
of endeavors so if this is attractive we
can we can think of like PL paying for
that for the cost of of a storage or
something like that and if people can
can do the work of actually getting our
data and making it accessible um
now one one thing that has been
requested a lot on on github here and
there and there was some initial work on
this last year but we would really like
to kind of kind of accelerate is
standardizing the pinning service api's
so so this is think of the need from a
lot of applications and tools to be able
to kind of have a standardized pinning
service API so they they can bind to
something and then they can try out try
out different different systems and
tools over time and and they have kind
of like as like some sort of stable API
and and then that would also enable them
as team to to build out features that
get closer to where pinning services are
today and supporting the use cases of
the services have if we can do it in
kind of like a like an egg I'm agnostic
kind of whole community oriented way so
so tomorrow we'll have a preview at a
potential pinning service API
and we'll have a workshop to discuss it
and see if if if it covers people's
needs we're also then being able to kind
of plug in in what given those API is
then seeing how we could integrate
pending services into products that's a
whole other part of this where you know
imagine being able to integrate things
into connect putting services directly
interactive has desktop or companion so
that as you're you are adding data to
these to these tools it gets kind of
automatically backed up depending
services as we have some social stuff
not tomorrow but then also looking at
how you know Veda Wallace from
marketplaces or applications themselves
could could support the pinning API
directly so then the users themselves
can then select the pinning service and
then and then kind of sort directly to
that web service we also get a preview
on all in the faculty client and I think
this and how it works will will will
help probably inform some of the Falcone
space for folks and then we'll hear a
lot about power gain which is a really
amazing tool that that Excel has been
working on that kind of fails a huge gap
in kind of developer UX between kind of
the raw Falcone nodes and those
interfaces and kind of how gorefest
works works today
and being able to manage the lifecycle
of client deals being able to make
videos understand what the deals are and
do do kind of understand that the
metrics and analytics of of your deals
and so on and so definitely check out
the our gate work you'll hear about it
more tomorrow and and again there are a
number of potential business
opportunities for for pinning services
with with our points so so we'll cover a
number of of things around this and
we'll dive into details on hey if you're
interested in accepting apartment
payments how does that work what do we
need payment processors we can talk
through some of the the ones that we're
kind of evaluating hey if you're
interested in doing storage money how
does how does that work if you're
interested in doing
retrieval mining how does that work and
then how do pending services having
dinner services interact with Ocwen and
that's kind of two sides one is a
pinning service could take things from
an application
then back them up to Falcone well stroke
either keeping a copy or just keeping
the cash or do it the other way which is
bidding services can actually backup
stuff coming from from top one so you
can think of Falcone as being
potentially both sides of the market for
you and there are potentially other
services that you may want to offer as
well that are useful to to the Falcone
ecosystem that that will we'll talk
about great so I think that's that's it
for me today thank you so much for a
fantastic day I've learned it's on it
was really great to see all all the
different uses and different different
things that people are building I really
think we're we're in this amazing
formation stage that that reminds me of
when when a cerium had just run away a
theorem was getting ready to launch and
launched where a lot of the first
primitive of my contracts were being
figured out and a lot of the potential
use cases were were made possible so did
it feels again like a like a pretty
certainly pit of time where a lot of
pieces that people have been working on
for quite a while are finally coming
together and it's gonna enable a whole
new wave of innovation and really
looking forward to this and sharing this
next wave wave with you all right I'm
gonna pause there and then open for
questions you do have a question from
Thomas he said of course everyone
compromises in order to get things to
work how much do you think people have
compromised since four years ago when we
all first saw your videos good that's a
good question um yes it's really
interesting hard question I mean I think
that probably the the hardest thing is
getting things to work well and be
useful to people quickly so I think a
lot of the possibilities especially
things like all the the IP LD work and
what happens when you start diving into
modeling data structures that way could
really benefit from longer time in kind
of like research development like a lot
more time in research development to
really flesh it out and I think that
there's been definitely a lot of
compromises in a whole bunch of layers
in the fact there to kind of push out
pieces as we had them which has been
kind of difficult because you end up
with like some
work and like some Peters work but
others are owned and so on and so
there's been a lot of compromising there
of hey we need to get stuff into
people's hands and and having people use
it using the tack and there's there's
definitely been a lot of compromise
there I think there's also been
compromises and from all adopters in
like using tooling that that is that is
evolving and changing and we do our best
to try and keep stable api's and not
break things well sometimes we break
some things and because when you can
improve the API and you know that
there's been you know a lot a lot of
support there from from users in
understanding the vision and where
things are headed but but taking the
taking the time to to uh to you know
deal with with it and make PRS and file
issues and all that kind of stuff so
there's been being stuff there I think
one in probably important compromising
part at least from my perspective is
there are a few kind of features that I
kind of really wanted early on sort of
really fast you know things like not
sharing a bunch of duplicate data or
having kind of private content
encryption and so on that I really
wanted bacon closer to the proko and
those have rolled out either s user
built user space tooling or are now
finally landing after a while so there's
been so that's that's kind of a road map
pushback of things that are that are
finally coming coming now the thing that
I think is a an extremely difficult
problem is reader/writer privacy this is
one of the things I think is critical to
the entire war through space especially
you know the ability have a web that
it's not spying on you and this is an
extremely difficult problem that just
where nobody's close to solving and this
is not not just us but but a lot of
groups or not not remotely close to
solving and even in academia and so that
problem I think is is an extremely
important one that I think the entire
space that all of the decentralisation
and one three spaces and I had to
compromise on on getting ship things
shipped out there even though you can
you can lurk in these networks and and
observe a lot of the traffic hopefully
but but I think all of it is like normal
growing pains about technology
like this like it's it's a especially
when you develop it in the open right
like you could take the Apple R out of
building everything kind of privately
and then kind of just delivering a few
sure for people and doing it in a very
close way that takes you know maybe a
decade and who knows when you'll get it
or you can build things and open certain
centers and open source and and I'm
really dry for it for open systems and
that that that means you have to build
things and evolve them with with a
community you end up with something much
more that gets powered people as opposed
to kind of lock people into systems
I'm gonna expand a little bit that like
you know when you come at it from you
know a an initial design or initial big
picture
figuring out all of them the tooling you
actually need in order to bridge people
into an ecosystem and make it accessible
like one of the things I'm most excited
about right now is the the tools and
services people are building that make I
give us extremely accessible to folks in
web 2 which is not like super hard in
the you know everything must be web 3
from the ground up if you're not running
an IP FS node locally on every single
device it's like a full tear in the
network then like you're cheating but I
think that that that like really hard
line is just not it isn't responsive to
the different scenarios we're seeing in
the ecosystem we're like yeah you're
gonna have nodes and browsers you're
gonna have nodes in mobile phones you're
gonna have nodes behind firewalls and
you need to be more adaptive to that and
that the the tooling we build up in
response to that is actually one of
those unanticipated opportunities for a
ton of new businesses to to emerge and
like I don't know if I'd call it a
compromise it's also kind of a win that
this is kind of what you know what the
real path to success looks like